So in the last lecture we worked a lot on the styling,
we now got a button which looks nice and which is positioned nicely,
let's make sure once we enter something here and we hit this button, we actually save it and maybe output it
below this whole section. For this,
we need a new handler,
maybe a place submit handler, there
I don't actually expect to get any argument and I want to trigger this handler upon a press on the
button.
Now when using react on the web you would use onClick, here on react native, the equivalent is onPress which
as you might be able to guess is fired whenever we press this button, there I want to execute this place
submit handler,
this one here. So this executes this method here,
now in this method, I want to add the value the user entered to an array of values which I then eventually
can output on the page,
so here I'll add a new property to my state,
let's name it places and let's then add something to place submit handler, there
I want to add the new place.
So first of all here I want to check if this state
place name, if I trim it,
if that is
equal to an empty string because if it is, I just want to return,
I don't want to allow the user to add an empty place but if it's not empty, then I will call this set
state and there, use the function syntax which react also gives you where you get the old state,
the previous state as an input to the function, just using an arrow function there and inside of the
function, you then return the object which should get merged with the state by react.
So that's just again normal react code
and here, I'll set places,
so this array here equal to previous state places and call concat on it to add a new element and return
a new array to update it immutably.
So there, I want to concatenate previous state
place name, so whatever the user entered.
This is what I return here,
this should allow me to add new places.
Now let's try it out,
let's go back to the application, let's manually reload it to make sure we really have the latest code
and let's add Munich as an awesome place because it really is awesome.
Let's hit add here
and we can't tell if it worked or not because we got no visual output,
so why don't we output the places we store here
and hopefully this is a list that grows as we press the add button. For this,
I'll add a new view below our view where we handled the user input with the input and the button element
and in this view, I simply want to output a list of the names.
So therefore, I want to render a couple of text elements where I just output the place names we store
in this array, to do this I'll actually do something before I return in the render statement,
I'll add a new constant which I'll name places output
and this is equal to this state
places map,
so I'm using the default logic for outputting arrays in react,
nothing special here when it comes to react native
and there, I got my place and I want to replace it here in this array with a jsx element so that I later
can render places output in the jsx code.
So therefore, place should essentially become a jsx element, a text element of course,
so there I will simply render place which is one element of the places array which is just an array of
strings,
so I can output place like this.
So places output then should be entered here in this second view,
there I'll add places output like this.
With that, let's save this, always reload if you've got an error which doesn't go away,
make sure to reload here too,
again sometimes this is buggy,
let me add Munich here on Android and hit add, we see Munich
and let's try the same here on iOS and we see it here too.
We also get an error or a warning that we should add a key property just as we do in normal web based
react apps,
so on the text node we create here in the array, let's add the key property
and unfortunately, I have no real unique ID,
so we'll fall back to the sub-optimal solution of using the index by receiving two arguments in the
function we passed to map where the second is the index of the element
and then I assign i,
so the index as a key, not the best solution but I have no unique key here.
So with that let's reload the app to make this error go away and let's try it again,
let's enter Munich here, works,
no warning,
let's also enter San Francisco, another very lovely city and we get this too
and it should also work here on iOS if we add all these elements.
And by the way it's really convenient of course that during development when using the simulator, you
can use your hardware keyboard,
you could use the built-in one too though.
So with that, we got a list which we output and we got this working, this input. We can work on the styling
of the list items though and we haven't created any custom component yet,
let's tackle all these things over the next lectures.